.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "PAM_PUTENV" "3" "05/04/2006" "Linux\-PAM Manual" "Linux\-PAM Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_putenv \- set or change PAM environment variable
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fB#include <security/pam_appl.h>\fR
.HP 15
\fBint\ \fBpam_putenv\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBpam_handle_t\ *\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBconst\ char\ *\fR\fB\fIname_value\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBpam_putenv\fR
function is used to add or change the value of PAM environment variables as associated with the
\fIpamh\fR
handle.
.PP
The
\fIpamh\fR
argument is an authentication handle obtained by a prior call to pam_start(). The
\fIname_value\fR
argument is a single NUL terminated string of one of the following forms:
.TP
NAME=value of variable
In this case the environment variable of the given NAME is set to the indicated value:
\fIvalue of variable\fR. If this variable is already known, it is overwritten. Otherwise it is added to the PAM environment.
.TP
NAME=
This function sets the variable to an empty value. It is listed separately to indicate that this is the correct way to achieve such a setting.
.TP
NAME
Without an '=' the pam_putenv() function will delete the corresponding variable from the PAM environment.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP
PAM_PERM_DENIED
Argument
\fIname_value\fR
given is a NULL pointer.
.TP
PAM_BAD_ITEM
Variable requested (for deletion) is not currently set.
.TP
PAM_ABORT
The
\fIpamh\fR
handle is corrupt.
.TP
PAM_BUF_ERR
Memory buffer error.
.TP
PAM_SUCCESS
The environment variable was successfully updated.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_start\fR(3),
\fBpam_getenv\fR(3),
\fBpam_getenvlist\fR(3),
\fBpam_strerror\fR(3),
\fBpam\fR(8)
