.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "PAM_ERROR" "3" "05/04/2006" "Linux\-PAM Manual" "Linux\-PAM Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_error, pam_verror \- display error messages to the user
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fB#include <security/pam_ext.h>\fR
.HP 14
\fBint\ \fBpam_error\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBpam_handle_t\ *\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBconst\ char\ *\fR\fB\fIfmt\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fB\fI...\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.HP 15
\fBint\ \fBpam_verror\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBpam_handle_t\ *\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBconst\ char\ *\fR\fB\fIfmt\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBva_list\ \fR\fB\fIargs\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBpam_error\fR
function prints error messages through the conversation function to the user.
.PP
The
\fBpam_verror\fR
function performs the same task as
\fBpam_error()\fR
with the difference that it takes a set of arguments which have been obtained using the
\fBstdarg\fR(3)
variable argument list macros.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP
PAM_BUF_ERR
Memory buffer error.
.TP
PAM_CONV_ERR
Conversation failure.
.TP
PAM_SUCCESS
Error message was displayed.
.TP
PAM_SYSTEM_ERR
System error.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_info\fR(3),
\fBpam_vinfo\fR(3),
\fBpam_prompt\fR(3),
\fBpam_vprompt\fR(3),
\fBpam\fR(8)
.SH "STANDARDS"
.PP
The
\fBpam_error\fR
and
\fBpam_verror\fR
functions are Linux\-PAM extensions.
