.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "PAM_ACCT_MGMT" "3" "02/12/2006" "Linux\-PAM Manual" "Linux\-PAM Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_acct_mgmt \- PAM account validation management
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fB#include <security/pam_appl.h>\fR
.HP 18
\fBint\ \fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBpam_handle_t\ *\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBint\ \fR\fB\fIflags\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBpam_acct_mgmt\fR
function is used to determine if the users account is valid. It checks for authentication token and account expiration and verifies access restrictions. It is typically called after the user has been authenticated.
.PP
The
\fIpamh\fR
argument is an authentication handle obtained by a prior call to pam_start(). The flags argument is the binary or of zero or more of the following values:
.TP
PAM_SILENT
Do not emit any messages.
.TP
PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
The PAM module service should return PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD if the user has a null authentication token.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP
PAM_ACCT_EXPIRED
User account has expired.
.TP
PAM_AUTH_ERR
Authentication failure.
.TP
PAM_NEW_AUTHTOK_REQD
The user account is valid but their authentication token is
\fIexpired\fR. The correct response to this return\-value is to require that the user satisfies the
\fBpam_chauthtok()\fR
function before obtaining service. It may not be possible for some applications to do this. In such cases, the user should be denied access until such time as they can update their password.
.TP
PAM_PERM_DENIED
Permission denied.
.TP
PAM_SUCCESS
The authentication token was successfully updated.
.TP
PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
User unknown to password service.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_start\fR(3),
\fBpam_authenticate\fR(3),
\fBpam_chauthtok\fR(3),
\fBpam_strerror\fR(3),
\fBpam\fR(8)
