.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "PAM_AUTHENTICATE" "3" "02/12/2006" "Linux\-PAM Manual" "Linux\-PAM Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_authenticate \- account authentication
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fB#include <security/pam_appl.h>\fR
.HP 21
\fBint\ \fBpam_authenticate\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBpam_handle_t\ *\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBint\ \fR\fB\fIflags\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBpam_authenticate\fR
function is used to authenticate the user. The user is required to provide an authentication token depending upon the authentication service, usually this is a password, but could also be a finger print.
.PP
The PAM service module may request that the user enter their username vio the the conversation mechanism (see
\fBpam_start\fR(3)
and
\fBpam_conv\fR(3)). The name of the authenticated user will be present in the PAM item PAM_USER. This item may be recovered with a call to
\fBpam_get_item\fR(3).
.PP
The
\fIpamh\fR
argument is an authentication handle obtained by a prior call to pam_start(). The flags argument is the binary or of zero or more of the following values:
.TP
PAM_SILENT
Do not emit any messages.
.TP
PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
The PAM module service should return PAM_AUTH_ERR if the user does not have a registered authentication token.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP
PAM_ABORT
The application should exit immediately after calling
\fBpam_end\fR(3)
first.
.TP
PAM_AUTH_ERR
The user was not authenticated.
.TP
PAM_CRED_INSUFFICIENT
For some reason the application does not have sufficient credentials to authenticate the user.
.TP
PAM_AUTHINFO_UNVAIL
The modules were not able to access the authentication information. This might be due to a network or hardware failure etc.
.TP
PAM_MAXTRIES
One or more of the authentication modules has reached its limit of tries authenticating the user. Do not try again.
.TP
PAM_SUCCESS
The user was successfully authenticated.
.TP
PAM_USER_UNKNOWN
User unknown to authentication service.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_start\fR(3),
\fBpam_setcred\fR(3),
\fBpam_chauthtok\fR(3),
\fBpam_strerror\fR(3),
\fBpam\fR(8)
