.\" ** You probably do not want to edit this file directly **
.\" It was generated using the DocBook XSL Stylesheets (version 1.69.1).
.\" Instead of manually editing it, you probably should edit the DocBook XML
.\" source for it and then use the DocBook XSL Stylesheets to regenerate it.
.TH "PAM_START" "3" "02/12/2006" "Linux\-PAM Manual" "Linux\-PAM Manual"
.\" disable hyphenation
.nh
.\" disable justification (adjust text to left margin only)
.ad l
.SH "NAME"
pam_start \- initialization of PAM transaction
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.PP
\fB#include <security/pam_appl.h>\fR
.HP 14
\fBint\ \fBpam_start\fR\fR\fB(\fR\fBconst\ char\ *\fR\fB\fIservice_name\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBconst\ char\ *\fR\fB\fIuser\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBconst\ struct\ pam_conv\ *\fR\fB\fIpam_conversation\fR\fR\fB, \fR\fBpam_handle_t\ **\fR\fB\fIpamh\fR\fR\fB);\fR
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP
The
\fBpam_start\fR
function creates the PAM context and initiates the PAM transaction. It is the first of the PAM functions that needs to be called by an application.
.PP
The
\fIservice_name\fR
argument specifies the name of the service to apply and will be stored as PAM_SERVICE item in the new context. The policy for the service will be read from the file
\fI/etc/pam.d/service_name\fR
or, if that file does not exist, from
\fI/etc/pam.conf\fR.
.PP
The
\fIuser\fR
argument can specify the name of the target user and will be stored as PAM_USER item. If the argument is NULL, the module has to ask for this item if necessary.
.PP
The
\fIpam_conversation\fR
argument points to a
\fIstruct pam_conv\fR
describing the conversation function to use. An application must provide this for direct communication between a loaded module and the application.
.PP
Following a successful return (PAM_SUCCESS) the contents of
\fIpamh\fR
is a handle that contains the PAM context for successive calls to the PAM functions. In an error case is the content of
\fIpamh\fR
undefined.
.PP
The
\fIpam_handle_t\fR
is a blind structure and the application should not attempt to probe it directly for information. Instead the PAM library provides the functions
\fBpam_set_item\fR(3)
and
\fBpam_get_item\fR(3). The PAM handle cannot be used for mulitiple authentications at the same time as long as
\fBpam_end\fR
was not called on it before.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.TP
PAM_ABORT
General failure.
.TP
PAM_BUF_ERR
Memory buffer error.
.TP
PAM_SUCCESS
Transaction was successful created.
.TP
PAM_SYSTEM_ERR
System error, for example a NULL pointer was submitted instead of a pointer to data.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.PP
\fBpam_get_data\fR(3),
\fBpam_set_data\fR(3),
\fBpam_end\fR(3),
\fBpam_strerror\fR(3)
